docs/faq.md, before:

# FAQ

- [Table of Contents](#contents)
  * [Continuous Integration](#continuous-integration)
  * [Running out of memory](#running-out-of-memory)
  * [Running out of time](#running-out-of-time)
  * [Running out of stack](#running-out-of-stack)
  * [Notes on gas distortion](#notes-on-gas-distortion)
  * [Notes on branch coverage](#notes-on-branch-coverage)

## Continuous Integration

**Examples**
+ [Github Actions and CodeCov][8] (OpenZeppelin)
+ [CircleCI and Coveralls with coverage split into parallelized jobs][7] (SetProtocol)

**NB:** It's best practice to run coverage as a separate CI job rather than assume its
equivalence to `test`. Coverage uses block gas settings far above the network limits,
ignores [EIP 170][4] and rewrites your contracts in ways that might affect
their behavior.

**Appendix: Coveralls vs. Codecov**

**TLDR: We recommend Coveralls for the accuracy of its branch reporting.**

We use [Codecov.io][2] here as a coverage provider for our JS tests - they're great. Unfortunately we haven't found a way to get their reports to show branch coverage for Solidity. Coveralls has excellent Solidity branch coverage reporting out of the box (see below).

![missed_branch][3]


## Running out of memory

If your target contains dozens (and dozens) of large contracts, you may run up against Node's memory cap during the
contract compilation step. This can be addressed by setting the size of the memory space allocated to the command
when you run it.
```
// Hardhat
$ node --max-old-space-size=4096 ./node_modules/.bin/hardhat coverage [options]
```

`solcjs` also has some limits on the size of the code bundle it can process. If you see errors like:

```
// solc >= 0.6.x
RuntimeError: memory access out of bounds
    at wasm-function[833]:1152
    at wasm-function[147]:18
    at wasm-function[21880]:5

// solc 0.5.x
Downloading compiler version 0.5.16
* Line 1, Column 1
  Syntax error: value, object or array expected.
* Line 1, Column 2
  Extra non-whitespace after JSON value.
```

...try setting the `measureStatementCoverage` option to `false` in `.solcoverjs`. This will reduce the footprint of
the instrumentation solidity-coverage adds to your files. You'll still get line, branch and function coverage but the data Istanbul collects
for statements will be omitted.

A statement differs from a line as below:
```solidity
// Two statements, two lines
uint x = 5;
uint y = 7;

// Two statements, one line
uint x = 5; uint y = 7;
```


## Running out of time

Because tests run slower under coverage, it's possible to hit default mocha time limits with a test that iterates hundreds of times before producing a result. Timeouts can be disabled by configuring the mocha option in `.solcover.js` as below: (ProTip courtesy of [@cag](https://github.com/cag))

```javascript
module.exports = {
  mocha: {
    enableTimeouts: false
  }
}
```

## Running out of stack

If your project is large, complex and uses ABI encoder V2 or Solidity >= V8, you may see "stack too deep" compiler errors when using solidity-coverage. This happens because:

+ solidity-coverage turns the solc optimizer off in order trace code execution correctly
+ some projects cannot compile unless the optimizer is turned on.

Work-arounds for this problem are tracked below. (These are only available in hardhat. If you're using hardhat and none of them work for you, please open an issue.)

**Work-around #1**
+ Set the `.solcoverjs` option `configureYulOptimizer` to `true`.

**Work-around #2**
+ Set the `.solcoverjs` option: `configureYulOptimizer` to `true`.
+ Set the `.solcoverjs` option: `solcOptimizerDetails` to:
  ```js
  {
      peephole: false,
      inliner: false,
      jumpdestRemover: false,
      orderLiterals: true,  // <-- TRUE! Stack too deep when false
      deduplicate: false,
      cse: false,
      constantOptimizer: false,
      yul: false
  }
  ```

## Notes on gas distortion

Solidity-coverage instruments by injecting statements into your code, increasing its execution costs.

+ If you are running gas usage simulations, they will **not be accurate**.
+ If you have hardcoded gas costs into your tests, some of them may **error**.
+ If your solidity logic constrains gas usage within narrow bounds, it may **fail**.
  + Solidity's `.send` and `.transfer` methods usually work fine though.

Using `estimateGas` to calculate your gas costs or allowing your transactions to use the default gas
settings should be more resilient in most cases.

Gas metering within Solidity is increasingly seen as anti-pattern because EVM gas costs are recalibrated from fork to fork. Depending on their exact values can result in deployed contracts ceasing to behave as intended.

## Notes on branch coverage

Solidity-coverage treats `assert` and `require` as code branches because they check whether a condition is true or not. If it is, they allow execution to proceed. If not, they throw, and all changes are reverted. Indeed, prior to [Solidity 0.4.10](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.4.10), when `assert` and `require` were introduced, this functionality was achieved by code that looked like

```
if (!x) throw;
```
rather than

```
require(x)
```

Clearly, the coverage should be the same in these situations, as the code is (functionally) identical. Older versions of solidity-coverage did not treat these as branch points, and they were not considered in the branch coverage filter. Newer versions *do* count these as branch points, so if your tests did not include failure scenarios for `assert` or `require`, you may see a decrease in your coverage figures when upgrading `solidity-coverage`.

If an `assert` or `require` is marked with an `I` in the coverage report, then during your tests the conditional is never true. If it is marked with an `E`, then it is never false.

[1]: https://coveralls.io/builds/25886294
[2]: https://codecov.io/
[3]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7332026/28502310-6851f79c-6fa4-11e7-8c80-c8fd80808092.png
[4]: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-170.md
[7]: https://github.com/SetProtocol/set-v2-strategies/blob/29db4a3de4a6ecd55a2c86d85a002b7e1106f8b2/.circleci/config.yml#L79-L143
[8]: https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/c12076fb7e3dfe48ef1d9c3bb2a58bdd3ffc0cee/.github/workflows/test.yml#L36-L56

Commit message:

change `.solcoverjs` occurencies to `.solcover.js` (#777)

docs/faq.md, after:

# FAQ

- [Table of Contents](#contents)
  * [Continuous Integration](#continuous-integration)
  * [Running out of memory](#running-out-of-memory)
  * [Running out of time](#running-out-of-time)
  * [Running out of stack](#running-out-of-stack)
  * [Notes on gas distortion](#notes-on-gas-distortion)
  * [Notes on branch coverage](#notes-on-branch-coverage)

## Continuous Integration

**Examples**
+ [Github Actions and CodeCov][8] (OpenZeppelin)
+ [CircleCI and Coveralls with coverage split into parallelized jobs][7] (SetProtocol)

**NB:** It's best practice to run coverage as a separate CI job rather than assume its
equivalence to `test`. Coverage uses block gas settings far above the network limits,
ignores [EIP 170][4] and rewrites your contracts in ways that might affect
their behavior.

**Appendix: Coveralls vs. Codecov**

**TLDR: We recommend Coveralls for the accuracy of its branch reporting.**

We use [Codecov.io][2] here as a coverage provider for our JS tests - they're great. Unfortunately we haven't found a way to get their reports to show branch coverage for Solidity. Coveralls has excellent Solidity branch coverage reporting out of the box (see below).

![missed_branch][3]


## Running out of memory

If your target contains dozens (and dozens) of large contracts, you may run up against Node's memory cap during the
contract compilation step. This can be addressed by setting the size of the memory space allocated to the command
when you run it.
```
// Hardhat
$ node --max-old-space-size=4096 ./node_modules/.bin/hardhat coverage [options]
```

`solcjs` also has some limits on the size of the code bundle it can process. If you see errors like:

```
// solc >= 0.6.x
RuntimeError: memory access out of bounds
    at wasm-function[833]:1152
    at wasm-function[147]:18
    at wasm-function[21880]:5

// solc 0.5.x
Downloading compiler version 0.5.16
* Line 1, Column 1
  Syntax error: value, object or array expected.
* Line 1, Column 2
  Extra non-whitespace after JSON value.
```

...try setting the `measureStatementCoverage` option to `false` in `.solcover.js`. This will reduce the footprint of
the instrumentation solidity-coverage adds to your files. You'll still get line, branch and function coverage but the data Istanbul collects
for statements will be omitted.

A statement differs from a line as below:
```solidity
// Two statements, two lines
uint x = 5;
uint y = 7;

// Two statements, one line
uint x = 5; uint y = 7;
```


## Running out of time

Because tests run slower under coverage, it's possible to hit default mocha time limits with a test that iterates hundreds of times before producing a result. Timeouts can be disabled by configuring the mocha option in `.solcover.js` as below: (ProTip courtesy of [@cag](https://github.com/cag))

```javascript
module.exports = {
  mocha: {
    enableTimeouts: false
  }
}
```

## Running out of stack

If your project is large, complex and uses ABI encoder V2 or Solidity >= V8, you may see "stack too deep" compiler errors when using solidity-coverage. This happens because:

+ solidity-coverage turns the solc optimizer off in order trace code execution correctly
+ some projects cannot compile unless the optimizer is turned on.

Work-arounds for this problem are tracked below. (These are only available in hardhat. If you're using hardhat and none of them work for you, please open an issue.)

**Work-around #1**
+ Set the `.solcover.js` option `configureYulOptimizer` to `true`.

**Work-around #2**
+ Set the `.solcover.js` option: `configureYulOptimizer` to `true`.
+ Set the `.solcover.js` option: `solcOptimizerDetails` to:
  ```js
  {
      peephole: false,
      inliner: false,
      jumpdestRemover: false,
      orderLiterals: true,  // <-- TRUE! Stack too deep when false
      deduplicate: false,
      cse: false,
      constantOptimizer: false,
      yul: false
  }
  ```

## Notes on gas distortion

Solidity-coverage instruments by injecting statements into your code, increasing its execution costs.

+ If you are running gas usage simulations, they will **not be accurate**.
+ If you have hardcoded gas costs into your tests, some of them may **error**.
+ If your solidity logic constrains gas usage within narrow bounds, it may **fail**.
  + Solidity's `.send` and `.transfer` methods usually work fine though.

Using `estimateGas` to calculate your gas costs or allowing your transactions to use the default gas
settings should be more resilient in most cases.

Gas metering within Solidity is increasingly seen as anti-pattern because EVM gas costs are recalibrated from fork to fork. Depending on their exact values can result in deployed contracts ceasing to behave as intended.

## Notes on branch coverage

Solidity-coverage treats `assert` and `require` as code branches because they check whether a condition is true or not. If it is, they allow execution to proceed. If not, they throw, and all changes are reverted. Indeed, prior to [Solidity 0.4.10](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.4.10), when `assert` and `require` were introduced, this functionality was achieved by code that looked like

```
if (!x) throw;
```
rather than

```
require(x)
```

Clearly, the coverage should be the same in these situations, as the code is (functionally) identical. Older versions of solidity-coverage did not treat these as branch points, and they were not considered in the branch coverage filter. Newer versions *do* count these as branch points, so if your tests did not include failure scenarios for `assert` or `require`, you may see a decrease in your coverage figures when upgrading `solidity-coverage`.

If an `assert` or `require` is marked with an `I` in the coverage report, then during your tests the conditional is never true. If it is marked with an `E`, then it is never false.

[1]: https://coveralls.io/builds/25886294
[2]: https://codecov.io/
[3]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7332026/28502310-6851f79c-6fa4-11e7-8c80-c8fd80808092.png
[4]: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-170.md
[7]: https://github.com/SetProtocol/set-v2-strategies/blob/29db4a3de4a6ecd55a2c86d85a002b7e1106f8b2/.circleci/config.yml#L79-L143
[8]: https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/c12076fb7e3dfe48ef1d9c3bb2a58bdd3ffc0cee/.github/workflows/test.yml#L36-L56
